














School Learning - GeeksforGeeks















































































Skip to content








































Tutorials



Practice DS & Algo.



DSA Topic-wise

DSA Company-wise

Algorithms



Analysis of Algorithms



Asymptotic Analysis

Worst, Average and Best Cases

Asymptotic Notations

Little o and little omega notations

Lower and Upper Bound Theory

Analysis of Loops

Solving Recurrences

Amortized Analysis

What does 'Space Complexity' mean ?

Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms

Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme

A Time Complexity Question

Searching Algorithms

Sorting Algorithms

Graph Algorithms

Pattern Searching

Geometric Algorithms

Mathematical

Randomized Algorithms

Greedy Algorithms

Dynamic Programming

Divide and Conquer

Backtracking

Branch and Bound

All Algorithms

Data Structures



Arrays

Linked List

Stack

Queue

Binary Tree

Binary Search Tree

Heap

Hashing

Graph

Advanced Data Structure

Matrix

Strings

All Data Structures

Interview Corner



Company Preparation

Top Topics

Practice Company Questions

Interview Experiences

Experienced Interviews

Internship Interviews

Competititve Programming

Design Patterns

System Design Tutorial

Multiple Choice Quizzes

Languages



C

C++

Java

Python

C#

JavaScript

jQuery

SQL

PHP

Scala

Perl

Go Language

HTML

CSS

Kotlin

ISRO CS



ISRO CS Solved Papers

ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys

ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam

GATE



GATE Computer Science Notes

Last Minute Notes

GATE CS Solved Papers

GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys

GATE 2021 Dates

GATE CS 2021 Syllabus

Important Topics for GATE CS

CS Subjects



Mathematics

Operating System

DBMS

Computer Networks

Computer Organization and Architecture

Theory of Computation

Compiler Design

Digital Logic

Software Engineering

Web Technologies



HTML

CSS

JavaScript

AngularJS

ReactJS

NodeJS

Bootstrap

jQuery

PHP

School Learning



School Programming

Mathematics



Algebra

Trigonometry

Statistics

Probability

Geometry

Mensuration

Calculus

Maths Notes (Class 8-11)



Class 8 Notes

Class 9 Notes

Class 10 Notes

Class 11 Notes

NCERT Solutions



Class 8 Maths Solution

Class 9 Maths Solution

Class 10 Maths Solution

Class 11 Maths Solution

Class 12 Maths Solution

RD Sharma Solutions



Class 8 Maths Solution

Class 9 Maths Solution

Class 10 Maths Solution

Class 11 Maths Solution

Class 12 Maths Solution

UGC NET CS



UGC NET CS Notes Paper II

UGC NET CS Notes Paper III

UGC NET CS Solved Papers

Student



Campus Ambassador Program

School Ambassador Program

Project

Geek of the Month

Campus Geek of the Month

Placement Course

Competititve Programming

Testimonials

Geek on the Top

Careers

Internship

Jobs



Apply for Jobs

Post a Job

Courses
















Write
Come write articles for us and get featured




Practice
Learn and code with the best industry experts




Premium
Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more!




Jobs
Come and find your dream job with us




Geeks Digest

Quizzes

Geeks Campus


Gblog Articles

IDE

Campus Mantri










Home

Courses



GBlog

Puzzles

What's New ?





Change Language






Related Articles




?






Related Articles




School Learning

NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths

School Learning

Section formula – Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry

Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data

Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths

CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes

Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples

Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths

Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2

Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths

Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths

Algebra

Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors

Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications

NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths

Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths

Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse - Triangles | Class 10 Maths

Calculus

Trigonometry

Introduction to Trigonometric Ratios of a Triangle

Tangent to a circle - Circles | Class 10 Maths

Roots of Quadratic Equations

Statistics

Introduction to Arithmetic Progressions | Class 10 Maths

Probability in Maths

Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 1

Refraction of Light through Glass Slab

Distance formula - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths








Improve Article



School Learning




Difficulty Level :

Easy

Last Updated :
19 May, 2021

The core vision behind the School Learning initiative of GeeksforGeeks is to provide the school students with quality learning resources and to make the learning process better than ever for them. Here, we will introduce various technological advancements such as animated videos, live-streaming, etc. for a more engaging and worthwhile learning experience for students.
You will get the video lectures, articles, practice tracks on various subjects We have divided School Learning into two major parts:
without any cost!





GeeksforGeeks School – Youtube Videos



Class 8 to 12 Concepts, Excercise & Solutions
Learning HTML is very much necessary to become a web developer. Here, we’re providing you with a 5-week workshop for HTML. There will be a total of 10 sessions over a period of 5 weeks where you’ll get to learn HTML from scratch.

HTML Workshop Live
:



App Lab (Code.org) is a programming environment that allows you to create simple and creative apps using either block-based programming or text. Here, we’re providing you with a step-by-step guide for Mobile Application Development using Code.org App Lab online platform from designing to development process including some enriching projects.

App Lab – Learn to Make Apps:



Machine Learning (ML) is a part of Artificial Intelligence and is concerned with the ability of machines to learn for themselves without being explicitly programmed.

Introduction to Machine Learning:




Learning a new programming language has always been a daunting task. But to simplify things – we’re providing you with a 5-week workshop that will surely help you to get started with the renowned programming language.

Live Python Class
:




Machine Learning which is concerned with the ability of machines to learn for themselves without being explicitly programmed is surely here to stay and rule the tech world for many upcoming years. Hence, it is worth it to learn this technology – here you’ll get to learn Machine Learning using SCRATCH in a most convenient way.

Machine Learning using SCRATCH:



Python is one of the most popular and widely used programming languages across the world. This high-level general-purpose programming language is being used in Web Development, Data Science, Machine Learning, and various other cutting-edge technologies.

Python Programming
:



Solving puzzles is undoubtedly the best exercise for your brain that too along with having fun simultaneously. Here, we’re providing you with several most exciting puzzles that you need to solve – so let’s check these out, and yes, do not try to cheat by skipping the video to see the answer.

Puzzles
:



Web Lab (Code.org) is actually a programming environment that allows you to create simple web pages using HTML and CSS. Here, we’re providing you with WebLab tutorials for various exciting projects like Contact, Chat Messages, Calculator, Music Website, etc. in a most interesting and comprehensive way.

Web Lab Projects – Live Classes:




C is a highly recognized programming language across the world, and it is the first programming language also of a huge number of individuals as it allows you to understand a lot of underlying processes & mechanisms of the Programming domain.

Introduction to C Programming:



Block-based Programming is concerned with programming format that involves dragging and dropping blocks of instructions instead of text-based programming. It is very much recommended for the students to introduce them to coding very conveniently and effectively. Here, you’ll get to learn Block-based Programming using Code.org in a very interesting way.

Block-Based Programming:



Game Lab is a programming environment that allows you to create simple animations and games with objects and characters that interact with each other. Here, in this tutorial, you’ll get to learn to build Mobile Games from scratch using the Block-based programming interface with Game Lab (Code.org).

Create Real-World Games Using Game Lab:



As they said that the best way to learn anything is learning by doing. Hence, all the school students who want to learn programming consider building several projects for better learning. Here, in this tutorial, you’ll get to learn to create real-world apps with Block-based Programming using App Lab.

Create Real-World Apps (Using Block-Based Programming):



Kids always consider Mathematics as a really tough subject to learn – however, if it is considered as a life skill rather than just a mere subject and taught accordingly to them then surely things will become easier. Here, we’re providing Mathematics Tutorials for Grade 6 to 8 Students to explain various fundamentals concepts in a very interesting and engaging manner by relating the concepts with real-life examples.

Mathematics For Kids (Grade 6 to 8):



Robotics is a very fascinating field that involves designing, developing, and usage of robots to do particular tasks. Here, you will get to learn about Robotics and work on various projects based on Robotics to understand the basics & fundamentals of a robot, and it’s working.

DIY Arduino Project (Live Classes):



Scratch is an open-source block-based programming language that allows students to build games or solve puzzles for the sake of developing computational thinking skills. Here, you’ll get to learn various key computational thinking concepts and practices with the help of an interesting Duck Jump Game.

Computational Thinking with Scratch
:



We’re providing you with quality content on various subjects for . It will be a one-stop destination for all your learning concerns, for instance – if you want to learn any specific subject of a particular class, you will get it here or if you want to practice the exercises questions, it will also be provided here. Moreover, the entire content for all the subjects is prepared by the respective subject experts and in an optimized & creative manner. You can access the content for particular classes from below:
Classes 8 to 12
Class 8 – Mathematics



Concepts


NCERT Solutions


RD Sharma Solutions
Class 9 – Mathematics



Concepts


NCERT Solutions


RD Sharma Solutions
Class 10 – Mathematics



Concepts


NCERT Solutions


RD Sharma Solutions
Class 11 – Mathematics



Concepts


NCERT Solutions


RD Sharma Solutions
Class 12 – Mathematics



Concepts


NCERT Solutions


RD Sharma Solutions











My Personal Notes

arrow_drop_up




Save





Like





Previous

NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths


Next


Section formula – Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry




Recommended Articles

Page :








Learning Model Building in Scikit-learn : A Python Machine Learning Library
17, Feb 17



Artificial intelligence vs Machine Learning vs Deep Learning
23, Jan 19



How to Start Learning Machine Learning?
11, Sep 19



Difference Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning
26, May 20





Need of Data Structures and Algorithms for Deep Learning and Machine Learning
14, Oct 20



Machine Learning - Applications
11, Jan 16



Demystifying Machine Learning
02, May 16



Getting started with Machine Learning
17, Feb 17





Introduction To Machine Learning using Python
04, May 17



An introduction to Machine Learning
24, Aug 17



Supervised and Unsupervised learning
01, Oct 17



Underfitting and Overfitting in Machine Learning
23, Nov 17





Regression and Classification | Supervised Machine Learning
01, Dec 17



Difference between Machine learning and Artificial Intelligence
19, Feb 18



Top 10 Apps Using Machine Learning in 2020
10, Apr 20



Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence
23, Apr 18





Why learning C Programming is a must?
08, Feb 19



Beginner Tips for Learning Python
04, Apr 19



How Machine Learning Will Change the World?
12, Feb 20



Top 10 Algorithms every Machine Learning Engineer should know
22, May 19





Targeted Advertising using Machine Learning
05, Sep 19



Benefits of Using Modern Learning Apps
12, May 19



Combining IoT and Machine Learning makes our future smarter
23, May 19



Top Career Paths in Machine Learning
13, Jun 19





Article Contributed By :






GeeksforGeeks

Vote for difficulty
Current difficulty :
Easy


Easy
Normal
Medium
Hard
Expert



Improved By :


madhur912

Article Tags :


Class 10

Class 11

Class 12

Class 8

Class 9

GBlog

NCERT

RD Sharma Solutions

School Learning



Report Issue









What's New








Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students

View Details








DSA Self Paced Course

View Details








DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals

View Details









Most popular in Class 10




Geometry

Mensuration

Cumulative frequency curve

Magnetic Field due to Current in Straight Wire

Spherical Mirrors









Most visited in Class 11




Focus and Directrix of a Parabola

Difference Between Mean, Median, and Mode with Examples

Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Trigonometric Function - Exercise 3.1

Geometry

NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths










Writing code in comment? Please use , generate link and share the link here.
ide.geeksforgeeks.org


Load Comments






×














































5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305



feedback@geeksforgeeks.org













Company

About Us

Careers

Privacy Policy

Contact Us

Copyright Policy

Learn

Algorithms

Data Structures

Languages

CS Subjects

Video Tutorials

Practice

Courses

Company-wise

Topic-wise

How to begin?

Contribute

Write an Article

Write Interview Experience

Internships

Videos


@geeksforgeeks
,
Some rights reserved






We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our &

Cookie Policy

Privacy Policy
Got It !







